OSDOCS-4757:adds session affinity to OVN-K (#56678)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/nw-ovn-kubernetes-session-affinity.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * networking/ovn_kubernetes_network_provider/about-ovn-kubernetes.adoc

:_content-type: CONCEPT
[id="nw-ovn-kubernetes-session-affinity_{context}"]
= Session affinity

> Session affinity applies services to `objects`. For example, a Service's IP:Port can use a proxy to connect to a designated backend. You can set session affinity to connect a specified client to the same Pod each time. For more information, including how to set session affinity based on a client's IP address, refer to link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/networking/virtual-ips/#session-affinity[Session affinity].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Session affinity is a feature that applies to kubernetes objects of type `services`. You can use `session affinity` If you want to ensure that each time you connect to a ServiceVIP:Port the traffic is always load balanced to the same backend. For more information, including how to set session affinity based on a client's IP address, refer to link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/networking/virtual-ips/#session-affinity[Session affinity].
```

> Session affinity is a feature that applies to Kubernetes `services` objects. You can use `session affinity` if you want to ensure that each time you connect to a ServiceVIP:Port the traffic is always load balanced to the same backend. For more information, including how to set session affinity based on a client's IP address, refer to link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/networking/virtual-ips/#session-affinity[Session affinity].

Reviewer 2: * The object is called `Service` singular, capitalized. You can use our API reference docs or the "oc api-resources" command to look for common API object names.
* If you want to emphasize or define a term (session affinity in this case), then use italics
* "back end" two words when it's a noun (per ISG)
* Per ISG, "see" is preferred instead of "refer to"
* Are "ServiceVIP:Port" replaceable values that indicate something the user would replace (or depends on their system)? If so, then I'd use our normal replaceable value syntax
* Added comma

```suggestion
Session affinity is a feature that applies to Kubernetes `Service` objects. You can use _session affinity_ if you want to ensure that each time you connect to a <service_vip>:<port>, the traffic is always load balanced to the same back end. For more information, including how to set session affinity based on a client's IP address, see link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/networking/virtual-ips/#session-affinity[Session affinity].
```

> Session affinity is a feature that applies to Kubernetes `Services` objects. You can use _session affinity_ if you want to ensure that each time you connect to a <service_VIP>:<Port>, the traffic is always load balanced to the same back end. For more information, including how to set session affinity based on a client's IP address, see link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/networking/virtual-ips/#session-affinity[Session affinity].

Reviewer 3: So there's no such object as `Services`, only `Service`. I'd call this a `Service` object instead.

> Session affinity is a feature that applies to kubernetes objects of type `services`. You can use `session affinity` if you want to ensure that each time you connect to a ServiceVIP:Port the traffic is always load balanced to the same backend. For more information, including how to set session affinity based on a client's IP address, refer to link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/networking/virtual-ips/#session-affinity[Session affinity].

Reviewer 4: s/kubernetes/Kubernetes
s/kubernetes objects of type `services`/kubernetes `services` objects (minimalism)
Does `session affinity`need markup?
Does _ServiceVIP:Port_ need a comma? _ServiceVIP:Port, the traffic..._ (I tend to over-comma)

[discrete]
[id="nw-ovn-kubernetes-session-affinity-stickyness-timeout_{context}"]
== Stickyness timeout for session affinity

> The OVN-Kubernetes network plugin for {product-title} calculates the stickyness timeout for a `session` from a client based on the last packet. For example, if you run a curl 10 times, the stickyness timer starts from 10th packet not 1st. As a result if the client is continuously contacting the service, then the session will never timeout. The timeout kicks in when the service has not received a packet for `timeoutSeconds`.

Reviewer: Link to https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/networking/virtual-ips/#session-stickiness-timeout at the end when you say `timeoutSeconds` so that its clear what that value is and how that can be set.

> The OVN-Kubernetes network plugin for {product-title} calculates the stickyness timeout for a `session` from a client based on the last packet. For example, if you run a curl 10 times, the stickyness timer starts from 10th packet not 1st. As a result if the client is continuously contacting the service, then the session will never timeout. The timeout kicks in when the service has not received a packet for link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/networking/virtual-ips/#session-stickiness-timeout[`timeoutSeconds`].

Reviewer 4: s/stickyness/stickiness ?
s/from 10th packet not 1st/from 10th packet not first (Not sure what the rules are, and I looked. But 1st looks weird)

Author: The first one I'm not sure about https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#sticky-session. Second is a solid miss on my part, thank you.

> The OVN-Kubernetes network plugin for {product-title} calculates the stickiness timeout for a `session` from a client based on the last packet. For example, if you run a curl 10 times, the sticky session timer starts from the tenth packet not the first. As a result if the client is continuously contacting the service, then the session will never timeout. The timeout kicks in when the service has not received a packet for link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/networking/virtual-ips/#session-stickiness-timeout[`timeoutSeconds`].

Reviewer 2: * "session" here either needs to be not marked up, or if you're talking about the actual object itself, then it should be "`Session` object. My guess here is that a normal general reference of "session" not marked up is fine.
* Adding comma
* Consider avoiding future tense "will" by my suggested rewrite, if the meaning remains the same
* Avoid "kicks in". I'd recommend "starts" or "begins" or similar
* We usually try to avoid just saying a parameter name like this as text. I'd recommend adding more around it. Added a suggestion below, but you can reword however makes sense

```suggestion
The OVN-Kubernetes network plugin for {product-title} calculates the stickiness timeout for a session from a client based on the last packet. For example, if you run a curl 10 times, the sticky session timer starts from the tenth packet not the first. As a result, if the client is continuously contacting the service, then the session never times out. The timeout starts when the service has not received a packet for the amount of time set by the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/networking/virtual-ips/#session-stickiness-timeout[`timeoutSeconds`] parameter.
```

> The OVN-Kubernetes network plugin for {product-title} calculates the stickiness timeout for a session from a client based on the last packet. For example, if you run a `curl` command 10 times, the sticky session timer starts from the tenth packet not the first. As a result, if the client is continuously contacting the service, then the session never times out. The timeout starts when the service has not received a packet for the amount of time set by thelink:https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/networking/virtual-ips/#session-stickiness-timeout[`timeoutSeconds`] parameter.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The OVN-Kubernetes network plugin for {product-title} calculates the stickiness timeout for a session from a client based on the last packet. For example, if you run a `curl` command 10 times, the sticky session timer starts from the tenth packet not the first. As a result, if the client is continuously contacting the service, then the session never times out. The timeout starts when the service has not received a packet for the amount of time set by the link:https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/networking/virtual-ips/#session-stickiness-timeout[`timeoutSeconds`] parameter.
```
